README.md, before:

# Meraki-API-V1

This module allows you to interact and manage your Meraki organization using Powershell.
This module uses the Version 1 REST API.

>[!WARNING]
I have enabled the some of the writable functions that have been tested (New-, Add-, Set- Remove-). Please make sure you are 100%, absolutely, without a doubt, sure you know what you are doing! I hold no responsibility if you damage your Meraki Organization/Networks. You are warned!

[Module Reference](https://clifra-jones.github.io/Meraki-API-V1/docs/reference.html)

[Release notes](https://clifra-jones.github.io/Meraki-API-V1/docs/releaseNotes.md)

This module aims to follow Powershell best practices.

Powershell best practices discourage the use of pluralized function names, I have made the effort to remove most of the pluralized functions that were in this module. I have created aliases to the previous pluralized functions. This should prevent any scripts you already have from breaking. You should make the effort to modify your scripts to use the new non-pluralized functions.
There are still some pluralized function, primarily in the Organization functions. The organization functions use different endpoint URIs.

Example:

- Get-MerakiNetworks which is an Organization endpoint.
- Get-MerakiNetwork which is a Network endpoint.

There are certain API endpoints that allow filtering by providing arrays of values, i.e. network ids, serial numbers, client ids etc. I have chosen not to utilize these filters and allow the user to filter the results using the Where-Object cmdlet. This is the PowerShell way of doing things. This should not be a performance issue unless you have an organization with 1000's of networks containing 1000's of devices. If that is the case you may want to call these endpoints manually.

Many of the objects returned by the functions in this module provide additional properties that facilitate piping the results to other commands. Properties such as NetworkID, Serial, InterfaceId, etc are added to the results from the API methods that do not contain them.

Piping is not supported for certain function. These include all Remove- functions and some Set- functions that the module creates unique identifiers for each item returned. This is done for safety reasons on the Remove- functions. For module provided unique identifiers I cannot guarantee that the item referred to by the identifier is the same item configuration across different networks, devices, etc. Again this is for safety and data integrity reasons.

As stated above, writable function are YOUR responsibility! There is no UNDO, there is no recovery! If you delete a network, it is gone, you will have to rebuild it manually! The same applies to any configuration in your organization! While this module provides a convenient method of doing something like cleaning up old networks that are no longer is use much faster than doing it manually through the dashboard, you MUST use care to make sure all the network IDs you are providing are in fact meant to be removed! You can seriously damage your Meraki organization and possibly find yourself unemployed! Neither myself, or Cisco can be held responsible for your actions!

## Secure API Key storage

The module now supports storing your API keys in Secure Storage.
This requires the following modules to be installed on your system:

- Microsoft.Powershell.SecretsManagement
- Microsoft.Powershell.SecretStore

These are now required modules for this module. You will need to install them even if you do not use the secure key storage feature.

You will need to create a vault to store your keys. SecretStore does not support multiple named vaults. Doing so just duplicates the vault!
See: [SecretStore issue 58](https://github.com/PowerShell/SecretStore/issues/58#issuecomment-824216690)
If you currently have a secret store vault on your system you do not need to create a new one. This vault will be used to store your API key.

### Create a new vault

```powershell
New-MerakiSecretVault -Authentication Password -Interaction Prompt
```

This will prompt you to set a password on your vault. You should do this for interactive system. You can set -Authentication and -Interaction to 'none' to not set a password on the vault. This  should only be done on system that need to operate in non-interactive mode, such as scheduled tasks. This should only be done on a secure computer under a secure user profile.

If the vault is secured by a password, you will be prompted for it when you run the first function in your PowerShell session. You will not be prompted for the password again for subsequent functions while the current powershell session remains active.

### Create a Secure Configuration

The Set-MerakiAPI function now support the -SecureKey parameter. This parameter instructs the function to store the API key in the Secret Store.

To convert your current configuration to use a Secure Key.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -SecureKey
```

To create a new configuration with a Secure Key.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -APIKey 'EXAMPLE7tryt65ref34yhdt91j7p' -OrgId 123456 -SecureKey
```

## Examples

There are a few examples in the Examples folder under the module folder.
You can refer to these examples for various techniques used with this module.
The example DocumentMerakiNetwork.ps1 requires the module Import-Excel to function. You will need to install this module to use this example.

## INSTALLATION

The module is now available from the Powershell Gallery. This will always be the latest stable version of this module.

```powershell
Install-Module Meraki-API-V1
```

There is a test branch you can clone if you want to test out any new features not in the current production version. The branch name is 2.0_test.

## USAGE

API Access must be enabled on your Meraki Dashboard.

You will need to have a Meraki API key. You can get your key by logging into your Meraki Dashboard, go to your profile and generate your API key.
Save this key in a safe place.

Once you have your API key you need to obtain the Organization ID for the Organizations you have access to. You can do this with the Get-MerakiOrganizations function.

Open Powershell

```powershell
Import-Module Meraki-API-V1
Get-MerakiOrganizations -APIKey '{key string}'
```

Configure your user profile to use the API.

You must configure your profile to use the API module. To do this use the Set-MerakiAPI function.

Set the API Key and organization Id.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -APIKey '{key string}' -OrgID 'XXXXXX'
```

Set the API Key, Organization Id and name the profile. If there is not a default profile this will also be the default profile.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -APIKey '{key string}' -OrgId 'XXXXXX' -ProfileName 'ProfileName'
```

Set the API key and Organization ID and use a Secure Key.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -APIKey '{key string}' -OrgId 'XXXXXX' -SecureKey
```

This will create the file .meraki/config.json file in your user profile.

See the module reference for additional information on functions, syntax, and examples.

Commit message:

Changes to be committed: 	modified:   README.md 	modified:   public/Devices.ps1 	modified:   public/Networks.ps1 	modified:   public/Organizations.ps1 	modified:   public/Products/Appliances.ps1 	modified:   public/Products/Switches.ps1
Added the ComfirmImpact = 'High' CmdLetBinding to all functions that require confirmation.

README.md, after:

# Meraki-API-V1

This module allows you to interact and manage your Meraki organization using Powershell.
This module uses the Version 1 REST API.

>[!WARNING]
I have enabled the some of the writable functions that have been tested (New-, Add-, Set- Remove-). Please make sure you are 100%, absolutely, without a doubt, sure you know what you are doing! I hold no responsibility if you damage your Meraki Organization/Networks. You are warned!

[Module Reference](https://clifra-jones.github.io/Meraki-API-V1/docs/reference.html)

[Release notes](https://clifra-jones.github.io/Meraki-API-V1/docs/releaseNotes.md)

This module aims to follow Powershell best practices.

Powershell best practices discourage the use of pluralized function names, I have made the effort to remove most of the pluralized functions that were in this module. I have created aliases to the previous pluralized functions. This should prevent any scripts you already have from breaking. You should make the effort to modify your scripts to use the new non-pluralized functions.
There are still some pluralized function, primarily in the Organization functions. The organization functions use different endpoint URIs.

Example:

- Get-MerakiNetworks which is an Organization endpoint.
- Get-MerakiNetwork which is a Network endpoint.

There are certain API endpoints that allow filtering by providing arrays of values, i.e. network ids, serial numbers, client ids etc. I have chosen not to utilize these filters and allow the user to filter the results using the Where-Object cmdlet. This is the PowerShell way of doing things. This should not be a performance issue unless you have an organization with 1000's of networks containing 1000's of devices. If that is the case you may want to call these endpoints manually.

Many of the objects returned by the functions in this module provide additional properties that facilitate piping the results to other commands. Properties such as NetworkID, Serial, InterfaceId, etc are added to the results from the API methods that do not contain them.

Piping is not supported for certain function. These include all Remove- functions and some Set- functions that the module creates unique identifiers for each item returned. This is done for safety reasons on the Remove- functions. For module provided unique identifiers I cannot guarantee that the item referred to by the identifier is the same item configuration across different networks, devices, etc. Again this is for safety and data integrity reasons.

As stated above, writable function are YOUR responsibility! There is no UNDO, there is no recovery! If you delete a network, it is gone, you will have to rebuild it manually! The same applies to any configuration in your organization! While this module provides a convenient method of doing something like cleaning up old networks that are no longer is use much faster than doing it manually through the dashboard, you MUST use care to make sure all the network IDs you are providing are in fact meant to be removed! You can seriously damage your Meraki organization and possibly find yourself unemployed! Neither myself, or Cisco can be held responsible for your actions!

## Secure API Key storage

The module now supports storing your API keys in Secure Storage.
This requires the following modules to be installed on your system:

- Microsoft.Powershell.SecretsManagement
- Microsoft.Powershell.SecretStore

These are now required modules for this module. You will need to install them even if you do not use the secure key storage feature.

You will need to create a vault to store your keys. SecretStore does not support multiple named vaults. Doing so just duplicates the vault!
See: [SecretStore issue 58](https://github.com/PowerShell/SecretStore/issues/58#issuecomment-824216690)
If you currently have a secret store vault on your system you do not need to create a new one. This vault will be used to store your API key.

### Create a new vault

```powershell
New-MerakiSecretVault -Authentication Password -Interaction Prompt
```

This will prompt you to set a password on your vault. You should do this for interactive system. You can set -Authentication and -Interaction to 'none' to not set a password on the vault. This  should only be done on system that need to operate in non-interactive mode, such as scheduled tasks. This should only be done on a secure computer under a secure user profile.

If the vault is secured by a password, you will be prompted for it when you run the first function in your PowerShell session. You will not be prompted for the password again for subsequent functions while the current powershell session remains active.

### Create a Secure Configuration

The Set-MerakiAPI function now support the -SecureKey parameter. This parameter instructs the function to store the API key in the Secret Store.

To convert your current configuration to use a Secure Key.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -SecureKey
```

To create a new configuration with a Secure Key.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -APIKey 'EXAMPLE7tryt65ref34yhdt91j7p' -OrgId 123456 -SecureKey
```

## Examples

There are a few examples in the Examples folder under the module folder.
You can refer to these examples for various techniques used with this module.
The example DocumentMerakiNetwork.ps1 requires the module Import-Excel to function. You will need to install this module to use this example.

## INSTALLATION

The module is now available from the Powershell Gallery. This will always be the latest stable version of this module.

```powershell
Install-Module Meraki-API-V1
```

There is a test branch you can clone if you want to test out any new features not in the current production version. The branch name is 2.0_test.

## USAGE

API Access must be enabled on your Meraki Dashboard.

You will need to have a Meraki API key. You can get your key by logging into your Meraki Dashboard, go to your profile and generate your API key.
Save this key in a safe place.

Once you have your API key you need to obtain the Organization ID for the Organizations you have access to. You can do this with the Get-MerakiOrganizations function.

Open Powershell

```powershell
Import-Module Meraki-API-V1
Get-MerakiOrganizations -APIKey '{key string}'
```

Configure your user profile to use the API.

You must configure your profile to use the API module. To do this use the Set-MerakiAPI function.

Set the API Key and organization Id.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -APIKey '{key string}' -OrgID 'XXXXXX'
```

Set the API Key, Organization Id and name the profile. If there is not a default profile this will also be the default profile.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -APIKey '{key string}' -OrgId 'XXXXXX' -ProfileName 'ProfileName'
```

Set the API key and Organization ID and use a Secure Key.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -APIKey '{key string}' -OrgId 'XXXXXX' -SecureKey
```

This will create the file .meraki/config.json file in your user profile.

Create additional profiles.
Profiles are used to identify the Organization you wish to operate on. Profiles and the parameter -OrgId are only required on functions that operate at the organization level. For appliances, devices, etc. you do not need to provide a profile or use the -OrgId parameter.

When creating an additional profile DO NOT include the -APIKey parameter. You only need the -OrgId and the -ProfileName parameters.

```powershell
Set-MerakiAPI -OrgId '987456' -ProfileName "MyOtherOrg"
```

See the module reference for additional information on functions, syntax, and examples.
